\subsection{Navigation}

Global path planning and local path planning are the main components of an autonomous navigation system.
We base our navigation method on FMM \cite{ventura2015} for global path planning and DWA~\cite{fox1997dynamic} for obstacle avoidance and more reactive control. However, these planners will be modified to account for social costs and constraints in their planning. 

FMM computes the optimal path for the robot for a given destination, according to a potential filed created by the setting of obstacles in an environment based on wave propagation principles. In a constantly changing environment a given plan may no longer be valid over time. So applying FMM continuously is one solution to deal with this dynamicity. However, the frequency of this planning should be reasonable given the computational cost of this global planning method. In our system, social costs are incorporated into the FMM method when computing the optimal path by means of imposing the social costs as virtual obstacles.

In the case of DWA, the method has been modified to include a social component. The inherent reactive nature of this method, given the small window of planning which is required for ensuring collision, may not seem to benefit from human-awareness. However, we believe this is an interesting problem to investigate. We will discuss this in more details in the following section \ref{sec:algorithms}.







We believe that uncertainty of perception in social robotics, is an important topic which to our knowledge, has not been the subject of many notable studies. There is a dedicated chapter in \cite{correa2014uncertainty} on local planning with uncertainty, however, this is not considered in a social context. The sources of uncertainty in~\cite{correa2014uncertainty} are the position of the robot and the obstacles, and the partially known motion of moving obstacles, perception of people and the uncertainty in person and group detection and tracking has not been investigated.

%Another interesting aspect of human-aware navigation problem which should be deeply investigated is knowing how to decide when to replan. As a perquisite, We have studied whether accounting for social costs in the local planner can be effective. In basic navigation, the global path planner, provides a plan and local planner deals with dynamic obstacles and collision avoidance for making it possible to reach the goal. It is common to have social path planners considerate of people's presence and activities, but this is seldom taken into account for local path planners. Of course, this reactive short horizon control does not exactly have a social nature but it is interesting to see, how accounting for social costs in this low level is reflected on the higher level navigational behavior of the robot. By delegating part of the work to the local planner, the cost of global planning which is much larger than the local planning can be reduced. However, for the best behavior, a hybrid approach that adopts the use of social planners on both level is more effective.